hey everyone i'm jim with you get ripped
calm and today i'd like to do a follow
up on a couple of videos that Scott had
done recently a couple of weeks ago he
did a video about muscle soreness and
whether or not you should continue to
workout and then just a couple of days
ago he did a video about an injury
muscle injury and whether or not you
should continue so I guess the first
thing you have to ask yourself is are
you hurt or are you injured and if you
don't know what I mean by that let me
explain it basically the first one is
are you hurt do you feel muscle soreness
doesn't hurt a little bit that's normal
like Scott explained in that video I
guess we'll we'll do go ahead and Scott
put the video right there and then the
injury video will stick right there so
you can check those out the other thing
is are you injured and that's more than
just sore muscles that say sore muscles
are micro tears of the muscle when you
break it down an injury would be like a
real tear in the muscle that that's a
pulled muscle that you might want to
give some rest to that type of an injury
and again I'm Scott video he talks about
that today what I want to talk about is
how to relieve maybe the pain of some of
these injuries what I'd like to start
out with is a stretching before each one
of my exercises whether it's walking
whether it's cardio whether it's lifting
weights I like to stretch my muscles
there's also a new technique out there
that I haven't really tried it's called
alright I don't even know what it's
called it's this foam pad it's you know
I guess you can get different sizes but
there's a
my own foam pad you know maybe about
that wide about that long and you can
actually lay it on the ground and for
example if I was working my chest but I
lay down on that and roll it over the
muscle and that that helps get
circulation going in that area for free
or exercise so that's another good way
to prep yourself I guess you will to try
to prevent injuries you are going to end
up with sore muscles regardless if
you're working out like Scott said and
when that happens I like to use ice
after my workout I'll put ice on for 20
minutes on 20 minutes off and then 20
minutes on again and then wait till
later on in the day if if I feel like my
muscles are still little sore what I
want to do that I'll go ahead and not
repeat that with the ice what I like to
use for ice are these gel packs there
they just got gel in them you stick them
in the freezer and they're nice and cold
I'll put a paper towel or something over
that and then just say I pulled my chest
go ahead and stick it right on my chest
and and ice it just like you see you
know any type of injury that an athlete
might get they they put ice on that
right away so so that helps rest and
what I mean by that is more sleep than
anything making sure you get enough
sleep you want to make sure you're doing
seven to eight hours if you know some
people can can deal with five and six
hours and that's great but for the most
part people need to get more sleep we're
just not getting enough sleep so that
can help with your muscles because
that's really when a lot of the
repairing is going on and last don't
stay down long like Scott said if you've
got sore muscles you want to you want to
work those again I
only not the next day but if for example
you're working your chest you know two
or three days later it's it's kind of
for your chest to come up again go ahead
and do the work you don't want to leave
the muscle sitting idle again unless
it's an injury where you've got to give
it some rest
so try to understand the difference I
know your body and whether or not you're
yours feeling soreness or or real pain
from an injury and that all help you
with your decision I hope this
information was helpful to you if you
haven't already subscribe hit the like
button help us out if you like this
video and this is for Nicholas and Brady
now you get rid now you get ripped
thanks for watching I'll see you soon
how you get ripped
you